APPLICATIONS FOR LICENCES UNDER SECTION 63 OF ACT
 Applications for licences
39. For the purpose of section 63 of the Act, every application for a licence to manufacture any dutiable goods shall be made in writing to the Director-General specifying —
(a) the name, identity card number and address of the applicant;
(b) the name of the street or exact locality and number of the premises, or the lot number of the ground upon which it is intended to build the premises, where it is desired to carry on the manufacture;
(c) thenatureofthegoodstobeproduced,theoutputproposed and whether for local consumption or for export or both; and
(d) the security offered for the due payment of all duties and fees and for the proper conduct of the business.
Inspection of premises or site and submission of plans
40. If the Director-General is satisfied that the applicant is a fit and
proper person to receive a licence, he shall —
(a) cause to be inspected the premises upon which the goods are to be manufactured, or the site upon which it is intended to erect such premises; and
(b) call for a plan setting out in detail the proposed layout or construction thereof.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024
CAP. 70, Rg 2] Customs Regulations [2009 Ed. p. 27 Accommodation to be provided
41. Provisionshallbemadeintheplanrequiredunderregulation40 for the following:
(a) separatestoreroomsofsuitablystrongconstructionforthe storage of raw materials and for the storage of the finished product of the factory;
(b) accommodationintheformofmarriedquartersfreeofcost for such number of officers of customs as the Director- General may require to be stationed on the premises;
(c) a separate office for the officers of customs; and
(d) any other requirement considered necessary by the Director-General in order to ensure adequate protection of the revenue.
Director-General may order alterations
42. The Director-General may call for such alterations in the plan
submitted to him as are necessary to make it conform to regulation 41.
Fire and health safeguards
43. The applicant shall make such provisions against fire and for
safeguarding health as the fire and health authorities may require.
Approval of applications
44.—(1) If the Director-General approves the application, the
Director-General shall inform the applicant and sign the plan.
(2) The Director-General may also inform the applicant that a licence to manufacture the dutiable goods in respect of which the application was made will be issued to him when the proposed licensed premises or sites have been converted or completed and approved by the Director-General.
Plan of plant to be submitted
45. Before the installation of a plant intended to be used for the manufacture of any dutiable goods, the applicant shall submit a plan of the plant for the approval of the Director-General.
 Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024

p. 28 2009 Ed.] Customs Regulations [CAP. 70, Rg 2 Director-General may require alterations
46. The Director-General may at any time require the applicant to make such additions or alterations to the plan of such plant or to such plant after installation, as he may consider necessary for the adequate protection of the revenue.
Plan when approved to be signed
47. The Director-General, when satisfied with the details of the plant in respect of which a plan was submitted in accordance with regulation 45, shall signify his approval by signing the plan thereof.
No deviation from approved plan
48. The applicant shall not deviate from an approved plan except
with the written approval of the Director-General.
Issue of licence
49. When the premises and plant therein have been completed and approved, the Director-General, on receipt of the prescribed fee, shall issue a licence, in such form as he may think fit, to the applicant to manufacture the dutiable goods in respect of which the application was made in accordance with section 63 of the Act.
PART IX
PREMISES LICENSED UNDER SECTION 63 OF ACT
Alterations to premises
50. Nostructuralalterationorinstallationofanyplantormachinery to be used in connection with the manufacture of any dutiable goods may be made in any licensed premises without the written authority of the Director-General having first been obtained.
Director-General may order safeguards
51. The Director-General may at any time, in writing, direct the licensee to provide any additional means for keeping and securing the safety of the raw materials and of the product of the factory which may, in the opinion of the Director-General, be necessary.
 Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024

CAP. 70, Rg 2] Customs Regulations [2009 Ed. p. 29 Unless permission obtained, only watchman may dwell on
premises
52. Except with the permission of the Director-General, no person
other than a watchman may dwell on the licensed premises.
Premises to be clean
53. The licensee shall at all times keep his premises in a clean and
sanitary condition.
Liquors and cigarettes not to be returned to premises without permission
54. The licensee shall not —
(a) store in his licensed premises intoxicating liquors or
cigarettes, upon which the duty has been paid; or
(b) receive back into his licensed premises any intoxicating liquors or cigarettes which have been previously removed, whether for export or otherwise,
without the permission in writing of a proper officer of customs having first been obtained.
Proper officer of customs may place locks
55.—(1) The proper officer of customs may place such locks, seals or other safeguards as he considers necessary for the protection of the revenue upon any part of the licensed premises or portion of the plant therein.
(2) Suchsafeguardsshallbeprovidedattheexpenseofthelicensee.
(3) No locks, seals or other safeguards placed in accordance with paragraph (1) shall be tampered with, opened, broken, altered or removed without the consent of the proper officer of customs.
Liquors to be free from contamination
56. Any person who produces any intoxicating liquor on any licensed premises shall ensure that the intoxicating liquor produced is free from such injurious amounts of metallic contamination as may be specified in any written law.
 Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024

p. 30 2009 Ed.] Customs Regulations [CAP. 70, Rg 2 Contaminated liquors to be re-prepared
57. Where any intoxicating liquor produced on the licensed premises is found to be contaminated, the Director-General may —
(a) instructthelicenseetore-distil,re-makeorre-preparesuch liquors; and
(b) if necessary, cause the licensee to alter the plant installed on the licensed premises for the distillation or preparation of intoxicating liquors.
PART X
BOTTLING, BLENDING, COMPOUNDING AND VARIATION OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Application for licence
58. Every application for a licence to bottle, blend, compound or vary any intoxicating liquors under section 66 of the Act shall be made in writing to the Director-General, specifying —
(a) the name, identity card number and address of the applicant;
(b) the name of the street or exact locality and the number of the premises which it is desired to be licensed;
(c) the types of liquors which it is proposed to bottle, blend, compound or vary; and
(d) the security which the applicant offers for the proper conduct of his business.
Plan to be submitted
59. The applicant shall —
(a) submit to the Director-General a plan of the proposed premises and plant therein; and
(b) makesuchalterationsintheplanasmayberequiredbythe Director-General for the protection of the revenue.
 Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024

CAP. 70, Rg 2] Customs Regulations [2009 Ed. p. 31 Plan to be signed when approved
60. TheDirector-General,ifsatisfiedwiththeplan,shallsignifyhis approval by signing the plan.
No deviation from approved plan
61. The applicant shall not deviate from an approved plan except
with the written approval of the Director-General.
Issue of licence
62. When the bottling warehouse and plant therein have been completed, the Director-General, on receipt of the prescribed fee, shall issue a licence, in such form as he may think fit, to the applicant to bottle, blend, compound or vary intoxicating liquors in accordance with section 66 of the Act.
Notice of blending to be given
63. No licensee shall bottle, blend, compound or vary the alcoholic strength of any intoxicating liquors, except in accordance with the terms of a notice, delivered to a proper officer of customs not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the bottling, blending, compounding or variation, and specifying —
(a) the nature, quantity and identification marks, if any, of the liquors to be bottled, blended, compounded or varied;
(b) the place where the liquors are stored; and
(c) the time at which it is desired to commence the bottling,
blending, compounding or variation.
Bottling of contents of container not to be stopped
64. When the bottling, blending, compounding or variation of the contents of any container has commenced, it shall not be discontinued between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. until the whole is bottled, blended, compounded or varied, as the case may be.
 Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024

p. 32 2009 Ed.] Customs Regulations [CAP. 70, Rg 2 Empty bottles not to be removed without permission
65. All empty bottles which are intended for use for bottling together with corks, capsules and other material and implements for bottling shall —
(a) be kept in the bottling warehouse or at such other place approved in writing by the Director-General; and
(b) not be removed from that place without the permission of the proper officer of customs.
Containers to be kept in bottling warehouse until empty
66. When it is intended to bottle intoxicating liquor, the container from which the liquor is to be drawn off shall be taken into the bottling warehouse and shall not be removed from the warehouse until the container is empty.
Conditions of bottling
67. Except with the approval of the proper officer of customs —
(a) no filled bottle or portion of the blended, compounded or varied intoxicating liquors shall be removed from the bottling warehouse until the entire container from which it was drawn has been drawn off or the blending, compounding or variation has been completed;
(b) no filled bottle or other container shall be removed until it has been closed, sealed and labelled to the satisfaction of the proper officer of customs; and
(c) in the case of dutiable liquors, all filled bottles shall be placed in cases secured to the satisfaction of the proper officer of customs.



Fees for licences
[S 187/2013 wef 02/04/2013]
PART XV FEES
113.—(1) Subject to this regulation, there shall be paid the fees specified in the Third Schedule for licences issued under sections 51, 63, 66, 82 and 83 of the Act.
[S 457/2012 wef 01/03/2013]
(2) No fee shall be levied for a licence issued in respect of warehouses maintained by the Commonwealth Armed Forces and approved by the Director-General for the storage of dutiable goods.
(3) The holder of a licence issued under section 51 of the Act may apply to the Director-General during the period of his licence to vary
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024
CAP. 70, Rg 2] Customs Regulations [2009 Ed. p. 55 the size of the area of the place specified in his licence for
warehousing goods.
(4) The holder referred to in paragraph (3) shall, if the area is increased, pay a fee or, if the area is decreased, be entitled to a refund, of an amount that is the difference between —
(a) the fee that is payable under the Third Schedule for the issue of a licence in respect of the total area for warehousing goods after the variation under paragraph (3); and
[S 457/2012 wef 01/03/2013]
(b) the fee that has been paid for the issue or renewal of the
current licence (as the case may be),
pro-rated according to the proportion which the remaining period of his licence (rounded to the nearest month) bears to the total period of his licence.
(5) Theholderofalicenceissuedundersection51,63,66,82or83 of the Act shall not be entitled to any compensation for the suspension, withdrawal or surrender of such licence.
[S 707/2011 wef 01/01/2012]
(6) The Director-General may, in his discretion, allow a refund of one-twelfth of the amount of the licence fee for each complete month in respect of which the licence issued under section 51, 63, 66, 82 or 83 of the Act would have remained valid had it not been suspended, withdrawn or surrendered.
[S 707/2011 wef 01/01/2012]
Period for which licences shall be issued
114.—(1) Licences under sections 51, 63, 66, 82 and 83 of the Act shall be issued for the period 1st January to 31st December in each year or for such other period as the Director-General may approve.
(2) Licences approved during any year shall be issued to cover the period from the date of issue or from a date, at the discretion of the Director-General, to the end of any quarter of a year or such other date as may be appropriate, and in such cases, the fee shall be
 Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024

p. 56 2009 Ed.] Customs Regulations [CAP. 70, Rg 2 calculated at a monthly rate of the fee prescribed in regulation 113 for
each month or part of a month for which the licence is valid.
(3) Any increase in the licence fee which may be prescribed during any year under regulation 113 after the issue of any licence shall be paid at a monthly rate of the fee in respect of each month or part of a month for the remainder of the period for which the licence is valid.
Attendance fees
115. Fees are payable, at such rate as may be prescribed in the Customs (Miscellaneous Fees and Rates) Regulations 2012 (G.N. No. S 634/2012), for the attendance of any proper officer of customs in a Government warehouse or licensed warehouse during —
(a) the survey of dutiable goods under regulation 32, 34 or 35;
(b) the reconditioning of dutiable goods;
(c) the destruction of dutiable goods; and
(d) the bottling, blending, compounding, varying or denaturing of intoxicating liquors.
[S 326/2019 wef 02/05/2019]
PART XVI MISCELLANEOUS
Payment of customs duty or excise duty by passenger or other person
115A.—(1) This regulation applies to a passenger or other person who intends to have in his possession upon arriving in Singapore, whether on his person or in any baggage or in any vehicle, any goods subject to customs duty or excise duty.
(2) Thepassengerorpersonreferredtoinparagraph(1)may,before arriving in Singapore but not earlier than 3 days before the day of arrival, pay the duty using the mobile application or the web application developed by Singapore Customs for the payment of duty.
[S 437/2015 wef 01/08/2015]
 Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2024

CAP. 70, Rg 2] Customs Regulations [2009 Ed. p. 57 Disposal of forfeitures
116.—(1) All forfeitures under the Act and goods detained by or deposited with the Singapore Customs and left unclaimed by their owners for a period of one month shall, at the discretion of the Director-General —
(a) be offered for sale by public auction and the net proceeds of the sale credited to revenue; or
(b) wheretheDirector-Generalconsidersitinadvisableforany reason to offer such forfeitures or goods for sale by public auction, be disposed of in such manner as he may, in his discretion, direct.
(2) Where the goods in paragraph (1) had been left unclaimed by their owners for a period of less than one month and their owners had given the Director-General notice in writing that they are not claiming them, the Director-General may dispose of the goods in the manner described in paragraph (1).
Penalties
117. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of these Regulations shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Apply for a permit or license in this link here: https://www.police.gov.sg/e-Services/Police-Licences/Liquor-Licence
