Licence required for dealing with tobacco products
18.—(1) A person must not import into Singapore any tobacco product, unless the person holds a valid import and wholesale licence.
[9/2016]
(2) A person must not do any of the following in Singapore except by the authority of and in accordance with a valid import and wholesale licence:
(a) distribute by wholesale any tobacco product;
(b) sell or offer for sale by wholesale any tobacco product;
(c) permit to be sold or offered for sale by wholesale any tobacco product;
(d) have in the person’s possession for sale by wholesale any tobacco product.
[9/2016]
(3) A person must not do any of the following in Singapore except by the authority of and in accordance with a valid retail licence:
(a) distribute by retail any tobacco product;
(b) sell or offer for sale by retail any tobacco product;
(c) permit to be sold or offered for sale by retail any tobacco product;
(d) have in the person’s possession for sale by retail any tobacco product.
[9/2016]
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
[9/2019]
Tobacco (Control of
Advertisements and Sale)
2020 Ed. Act 1993 26
(4) In particular —
(a) animportandwholesalelicencemayauthorisethedoingof any act in subsection (2) only at premises specified in the licence; and
(b) the holder of a valid retail licence is authorised to do any act in subsection (3) only at a single point of sale within a retail outlet specified in the licence.
[9/2016; 46/2017]
(5) Apersonwhocontravenessubsection(1),(2),(3)or(4)shallbe guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —
(a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000, unless paragraph (b) applies; or
(b) if the person has any previous qualifying conviction, to a fine not exceeding $20,000.
[9/2016; 46/2017; 9/2019]
(6) In subsection (5), “qualifying conviction” means —
(a) a conviction for an offence under subsection (5); or
(b) a conviction for an offence under section 18(4) as in force immediately before 30 December 2017.
[9/2016]
(7) An application for a licence must be made to the Authority in writing in such form as the Authority may require.
[9/2016]
(8) Subject to subsection (9), the Authority may grant a licence on any terms and conditions, if the Authority is satisfied that the prescribed requirements for the grant of a licence are met.
[9/2016]
(9) No licence may be granted for the sale by wholesale or retail of any tobacco product by way of a vending machine.
[9/2016]
(10) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority refusing to grant or renew a licence to the person, or revoking, suspending or cancelling the person’s licence, may appeal to the Minister —
(a) within 14 days after receiving notice of the decision; or Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022

Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale)
Act 1993 2020 Ed. (b) within such extended period as the Minister may allow in
any particular case.
[9/2016]
(11) To avoid doubt, nothing in subsection (1), (2) or (3) authorises any person to import, distribute, sell or offer for sale, permit to be sold or offered for sale, or have in the person’s possession for sale, any tobacco product that is prohibited under section 15.
[9/2016]
Appointment of authorised officers
19.—(1) The Chief Executive may appoint any officer or any
person to be an authorised officer for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Intheexerciseofhisorherpowersandincarryingouthisorher duties under this Act, an authorised officer must comply with such general or special directions as may be given to the authorised officer by the Chief Executive.
(3) Everyauthorisedofficerisdeemedtobeapublicservantwithin the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

Apply for a permit at the following link: https://www.hsa.gov.sg/tobacco-regulation/licences/import-wholesale/apply

Responsibilities
You must comply with the rules and regulations of the Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale) Act. This includes not advertising tobacco products. Please refer to the key tobacco laws in Singapore.

Failure to follow these requirements may result in imprisonment and/or fines, and suspension or revocation of your licence.

In addition, the following are the terms and conditions governing your licence, which failure to comply with may lead to your licence being suspended or revoked:

As the licensee, you are only allowed to store stocks of tobacco products at the premises specified in the licence. You are required to furnish us with documentary proof showing your legal right to the storage use of such premises. We may revoke this licence in the absence of such proof for the duration of this licence.
An application for renewal of the licence shall be submitted to us at least five working days, before the licence expires. (Note: The renewal of a licence will only take effect after the required fees have been paid to and received by us.)
You shall be responsible for, and shall ensure that all activities and transactions are carried out at the premises specified in the licence in relation to the licensed tobacco products.
You should not be convicted for any contraventions under any applicable laws or contravene any condition of this licence.
In the event we receive information supported by certification from a medical practitioner of a disability impairing your cognitive abilities for the purposes of complying with this term, we may suspend or revoke the licence on the basis that you are unfit and improper to hold the licence.
You must inform us in writing of any additional variant of tobacco products and additional tobacco products (that has not been notified to us as part of the licence register) which you intend to import for sale in Singapore, at least 14 days prior to import, and must provide us with samples of the additional variant of tobacco products and additional tobacco products upon request.
Documents required
The following documents are required:

Copy of your NRIC.
Copy of your warehouse and office tenancy agreement.
Letter of authorisation from the manufacturer of the tobacco product, if you are applying for an import and wholesale licence.
GIRO for annual licence fees.

New licence application,	Fee,	Turnaround time (in working days) 
New licence application,	$2,720 (inclusive of a $100 non-refundable application fee),	 14 days
Renewal of licence of each subsequent year,	$2,400,	 14 days

Payment modes
You may use the following modes of payment through PRISM:

GIRO
Online payment (credit card / direct debit)

Note:

Licences are valid for 12 months from the date of licence approval. Renewal of licences must be submitted and processed before the expiry.

Link to access payment fees and details: https://www.hsa.gov.sg/tobacco-regulation/fees#toggle=togglepanel-tobacco-import-and-wholesale-licence